---
templateKey: blog-post
title: My 2018 in Review - Books
date: 2018-12-16T18:54:13.868Z
description: 2018 Book Review
tags:
 - books
---

Greetings friends! This is just a quick review of the books I read in 2018. Probably missing a few.

# Code

The Pragmatic Bookshelf have been ON FIRE with their Elixir books. The books they release are consistently the BEST resource for learning about that particular topic in Elixir.

## The Pragmatic Programmer by Andy Hunt and Dave Thomas

This year I sat down and worked through "The Pragmatic Programmer" for the first time since college. 

I found the book informative and a great framework for coding and professional development upon first reading. Re-reading years later after working as a professional software engineer, I feel the same way. In fact, I feel even more strongly that this advice in this book is GOLD.

Since my first reading, my brain has transmuted the lessons taught in this book from abstract idioms to common sense. However, I would still recommend returning to this book as an experienced software engineer. Having two great authors like Hunt and Thomas describe these practices in their excellent prose solidifies those lessons into concrete terms.

## Programming Elixir 1.6 by Dave Thomas

This book is a nice reference and a reasonable introduction to the Elixir language.

I find myself cracking it open frequently to double-check syntax I have forgotten or want to verify information about some part of the Elixir language.

## Functional Web Development in Elixir by Lance Halvorsen 

If I had to recommend one Elixir book it would far and above be Functional Web Development in Elixir. It is chock-full of best practices and wisdom about programming in the Elixir language.

As a reference, this book is not amazing. But the design patterns it introduces to you are essential.

However, I have one complaint. The book would have been greatly improved if Halvorsen had the readers developing a test suite along the way, instead of constantly dropping into IEX and copying commands.

## Metaprogramming Elixir by Chris McCord

Great reference and introduction to metaprogramming in Elixir. More than that, working through this book was a great refresher on how compiling code and an AST work.

## Programming Ecto by Darin Wilson and Eric Meadows-Jönsson 

The best way to learn to program using the Ecto ORM. Covers a wide breadth of topics, nice clear examples. Is technically a work in progress.

# Fiction

I read a decent little bit of fiction, but I have no expertise in this area.

- Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World by Haruki Murakami
- Entire Hellboy series Mike Mignola
- The entire Dragon Ball/z series by Akira Toriyama

I really loved the Broken Earth series this year. Excited to receive the final book as a gift!

- The Fifth Season by N. K. Jemisin
- The Obelisk Gate by N. K. Jemisin

I read a bunch of Gene Wolfe this year. It is completely trashy sci-fi but it was a fun ride.

- The Shadow of the Torturer by Gene Wolfe
- The Claw of the Conciliator by Gene Wolfe
- The Sword of the Lictor by Gene Wolfe
- The Citadel of the Autarch by Gene Wolfe

Jeff VanderMeer got my number this year. Excellent stuff!

- Bourne by Jeff VanderMeer
- Annihilation by Jeff VanderMeer
- Authority by Jeff VanderMeer
- Acceptance by Jeff VanderMeer

# Non-Fiction
- Sapiens by Yuval Noah Harari
- SPQR by Mary Beard
- Vacationland by John Hodgman

# Self Improvement
- Measure What Matters by John Doerr 
- Smarter Faster Better by Charles Duhigg 
- Remote: Office Not Required by David Heinemeier Hansson and Jason Fried 
